the UN Secretary General is calling on
Israel to immediately halt its
large-scale military operation in the
occupied West Bank for now Israel
presses ahead and claims to have killed
five Palestinian militants in a gun
battle in a mosque on Thursday several
cities have been targeted in the assault
which has seen hundreds of Israeli
troops backed by helicopters drones and
armored personnel carriers enter the
Palestinian
territory here in the shattered streets
of tarem Israel says it has already
achieved a significant success in its
largest operation in the occupied West
Bank for
years that's after local Islamic Jihad
leader Muhammad Jabba seen here in foul
footage was killed in a
firefight Israeli troops had tried and
failed before to eliminate Jabba who was
accused of carrying out numerous attacks
on
Israelis but Palestinian civilians are
also once again paying the cost of the
Israeli
raids we were asleep and woke up to the
gunshots at around 3:30 a.m. I started
waking my wife up telling her the Army
are shooting at the house I was barely
able to wake her up and they hit the
house with a rocket we ran my wife and I
to the other room they fired another
rocket my son and his wife were on the
second floor they hit them with a
rocket while this family were able to
escape their home with their l
Israeli forces roaming the streets in
search of militants have created serious
problems for the Health Care system in
the areas being
raided medical workers said troops are
blocking access for
ambulances the Israeli Army refuses
entirely to allow ambulances to enter
whether uncoordinated or coordinated
even if we are allowed to enter as you
see the ambulances cannot access the
camps or even reach humanitarian cases
and people with
diseases the UN has urged Israel to
ensure injured people can obtain Medical
Care warning that the operation in the
West Bank was fueling an already
explosive
situation our correspondent Tanya Kramer
sent us an update with the latest from
taram in the occupied West Bank so I'm
standing here on the main road to the
refugee camp nor Shamus now you can see
here some of the military vehicles uh
coming in we've been seeing this in the
course of the past hours also when we
came there was an explosion now I would
say it's a tense quiet here uh we cannot
go further at this point this is where
most of the journalists here are
standing right now now we came in
through to Karam City and the city is
almost deserted people we've been
talking to in the morning said they they
barely go out of the house they stay in
the safety of the house they're very
worried about about what is happening of
course it's not the first time they're
experiencing such tense situation or
military rids military rids happening
across the W the the occupied West Bank
on a a daily basis now also coming into
uh the refugee camp here behind the
camera you see the ambulances waiting uh
and some of the fire brigades also
waiting then uh to move in now Israel
says this is a major counterterrorism uh
operation um they say they go in because
attacks uh are emanating from the
northern uh West Bank they also say that
the camps are flooded with weapons and
infrastructure that is financed uh by uh
Iran now right now we are seeing some of
the vehicles here the um fire brigades
uh moving into uh the camp um so people
here are saying you know they don't know
uh how long this will take also the Army
said uh yesterday this is the first
phase so we have to wait and see uh how
long this large scale operation uh will
take place here in the northern West
Bank that was DW correspondent Tanya
Kramer and to Kum in the occupied West
Bank hansjakob Shindler is the senior
director of the counter extremism
project and joins me now welcome back to
the show now you and I were speaking on
the second day of Israel's largescale
military campaign in the occupied West
Bank why is this happening
now no look I mean there have been of
course a spike in incident of attacks
erating from the West Bank there has
been the unsuccessful luckily suicide
bomb attempt in t aiv a couple of days
ago what I can see um and what I hear is
there's of course a preparation from the
Israeli side because they assume Iran
has taken the second option there was
always two options that Quan would have
taken in response to the killing of Han
one was the very spectacular very open
very massive rocket attack option that
it did uh in April after the attack on
its Embassy in Damascus or a much more
long-term but potentially far more
harmful terrorist campaign now we've
seen an exchange of fire between
Hezbollah and Israel in the last couple
of days uh we've seen a far more
aggressive um campaign of the houthis
against shipping there's a oil tanker
that is about to sink in the Red Sea and
the expectation apparently seems to be
that part of that response is now a
stage where the terror structures that
still exist U that are loyal to Iran in
the Palestinian territories are
primarily in the West Bank in uh Gaza
Hamas is hammed in and they want to
prevent this from
materializing Israeli raids are part of
everyday life in the West Bank how is
this operation different is this just a
matter of scale and intensity or is
there something more to
it no it's much larger and much more
intensive you've seen the heavy
machinery in the images that you showed
there were helicopters involved there
were drones involved there were air
strikes involved so this is a really
large scale incursion operation in the
west gank that we haven't seen really in
several years so there is a major
concern apparently on the Israeli side
that the situation may really majorly
escalate in the West Bank and they doing
this preemptively analysts say the West
Bank is at this point in time at Boiling
Point the when has called for an
immediate halt to the raids could this
operation turn the West Bank into the
next Gaza so to
say well we we hope not because I mean
Gaza is really no longer existing as far
as infrastructure is concerned but of
course the risk with these kind of
preemptive military operations is we are
in a extremely tense situation in the
region more tend that we've seen in many
many years any escalation on any aspects
by any side always beares the major
danger of getting out of hand
inadvertedly slipping into a more larger
scale region War situation so this is of
course a another problem that
exacerbates the situation how does this
tie into the larger campaign against
Hamas and islamist extremism in the
region well the campaign in Hamas really
has to be sended in Gaza Hamas does
exist in the West Bank but it's nowhere
near FL structures or influences
concerned simply because of the fact
there are competitors the Islamic state
is stronger in the West Bank than it
ever was in Gaza there are other
Palestinian resistance groups some
Islamic terrorists um that are competing
with Hamas and and of course there's the
Palestinian National Authority who is
not going to be strengthened by this
massive military raid whose Security
Forces also oppose islamist extremism
and Hamas who are danger to the PNA as
they are to Israel that Hans yakob
shinda director of the counter extremism
project thank you always great speaking
to
you thank you so
much and before we continue There are
some breaking news on the war in Gaza
that we want to share with you according
to the World Health Organization Israel
has agreed to three days of humanitarian
pauses starting on Sunday they will take
place in different parts of the strip
this is to allow for polio vaccinations
to be given to hundreds of thousands of
children under the age of 10 this comes
after a baby in the Palestinian
territory contracted the first confirmed
case in
25 years